# Generating OOD Scenarios for Autonomous Driving
This repository provides a sample dataset generated by the framework presented in the paper [Generating Out-Of-Distribution Scenarios Using Language Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16554).


# About the Dataset:

In this reposity, we have data samples (images and videos) of 13 different categories of OOD scenarios, generated in the CARLA simulator. The categories are as below:

- 'crossing': A pedestrian is unexpectedly crossing in the middle of the road.

- 'debris': Large debris (e.g., fallen tree, etc.) in the middle of the road.

- 'fog': Extremely foggy weather, which limits ego's visibility.

- 'group': A group of people performing an acticity (e.g., protest, sport competition, etc.) in the middle of the road.

- 'lanechange': A car in an adjacent lane aggressively changes lane into ego's lane.

- 'misplaced': Misplaced construction equipment in the middle of the road.

- 'overturn': A car has crashed ahead and has overturned in the middle of the road.

- 'police_chase': A police chase happening in an adjacent lane.

- 'police_checkpoint': A sudden police checkpoint in the middle of the road.

- 'rain': Extremely rainy weather with limited visibility.

- 'random': A random object lying in the middle of the road.

- 'temporary': A temporary re-route of the road, indicated by the traffic signs.

- 'wrongway': Another car moving in the wrong direction toward ego.

## Images:

The images folder contains three snapshots of each simulated scenario, recorded in a fixed number of time steps. These snapshots are valuable for evaluating and understanding the scenarios using Vision Language Models (VLMs).

## Videos:

The videos folder contains the simulated scenarios as video files. In each category, we have also included the path in the simulatable tree that leads to the textual description of the corresponding scenario (see our paper for more details).


# Citation: 
If you want to use this dataset, please consider citing the reference paper: 

@article{aasi2024generating,<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;title={Generating Out-Of-Distribution Scenarios Using Language Models},<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;author={Aasi, Erfan and Nguyen, Phat and Sreeram, Shiva and Rosman, Guy and Karaman, Sertac and Rus, Daniela},<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.16554},<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;year={2024} <br>
}


# Example Videos:
Here are some video examples of the scnearios generated through our framework:

- Dense fog with limited visibility:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2503ab39-a5d8-41ab-a3bd-42f2a242fa4a


- Random object (trash can) on the road:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/43a0d3de-274b-46e0-9ff9-49862969735f


- Unexpected pedestrian crossing:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/07187d50-8972-4fad-9144-e7d09db9a7c7


- Group of people protesting on the road:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/018464dc-0888-4bcf-8c82-858c30625407
